---
aliases:
- "/blog/post/a-hugo-update-everyone-should-be-talking-about"
title: A Hugo Update Everyone Should Be Talking About
authors:
- chris-macrae
images:
- "/uploads/2018/01/a-hugo-update-everyone-should-be-talking-about.png"
publishDate: 2017-06-26 15:00:00 +0000
expirydate: 2030-01-01 04:00:00 +0000
excerpt: 'For Hugo users a few great updates came out recently with a long-awaited
  feature: nested sections.'
categories:
- hugo
date: 2017-06-26 12:00:00 -0300

---
For Hugo users a few great updates came out recently with a long-awaited feature: *nested sections*. Along with nested sections, Hugo 0.22-0.24 added a series of improvements that make building websites even easier.

## Nested Sections, What’s The Big Deal?

If you’re not familiar with Hugo, sections are the different types of content your Hugo site has. For example *Posts, Pages, and Press Releases*.

Until Hugo 0.22, nesting sections weren’t supported as a feature, meaning you couldn’t easily have a hierarchical relationship between different types of content.

Why is this important? It’s because there are many scenarios where nested sections are an asset! Take a documentation site, for example…

In a documentation site, you can create a section for FAQs, for a getting started guide, and for API docs. Inside each section, you can now add a nested subsection for specific topics.

Imagine API documentation where you document a set of endpoints for `users`.

Instead of using categories or tags to manage this relationship, you can just nest them which will create easily readable, human URLs such as `/docs/api/users`.

## Improvements to Page Fetching

On top of nested sections, Hugo 0.22 has upgraded the `.Site.GetPage` template function to get any regular page, which means you can now fetch any page by filename.

*For example:*
```go-text-template
{{ .Site.GetPage "page" "post" "example-post.md" }}
```

On top of this, performance improvements were made to page fetching to make it even faster.

## Archetypes as GoTemplates

In Hugo 0.24 Archetypes received a huge update. They can now be formatted as GoTemplates, letting you run complex logic when you create content using an Archetype.

For example:

```go-text-template
---
title: "{{ replace .TranslationBaseName "-" " " | title }}"
publishDate: {{ .Date }}
draft: true
---

**Insert Lead paragraph here.**

## New Cool Posts

{{ range first 10 ( where .Site.RegularPages "Type" "cool" ) }}
* {{ .Title }}
{{ end }}

```

In this example, the `title`<span style="font-size: 1rem;">​ field is automatically localized, the&nbsp;</span>`date`<span style="font-size: 1rem;">​ is automatically configured from the current date, and a set of related posts are listed in the markdown body.&nbsp;</span>

<span style="font-size: 1rem;">This is a killer feature for developers managing content from the CLI, and can easily be paired with Front Matter Templates to offer similar functionality to your content managers in Forestry.</span>

**Note:** Forestry does not support GoTemplate syntax when importing Archetypes to create Front Matter Templates. [More info found here](https://forestry.io/docs/site-configuration/front-matter-templates/#automatically-create-templates-when-importing-a-site).

## Other improvements

* `0.24.1`fixed bugs with `hugo new` when no Archetype was available, as well as when shortcodes were being used.

* Archetypes can now be used to create content for all content types, not just markdown.

* Improved `hugo serve` to handle removal of directories, or directories pasted into `/content` out of the box.

* Added `noindex` tag to HTML generated by Hugo aliases, which helps improves SEO

* Ensures the 404 page is not included in the autogenerated sitemap, which helps improve SEO

* Add `uniq` function, which allows you to remove duplicates from an array.

For a full summary of the latest releases, [see the Hugo releases!](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases)